The project one-pager: how to make - by Claudio Mendonca
ccm.design Insights
SubscribeSign in
The project one-pager: how to make
An elevator pitch on paper
Claudio Mendonca
Jan 23, 2024
Share
So, you've decided to write a one-pager for your research or institution. You probably know that a one-pager is promotional material and even has a few key points to include. But writing a one-pager is more challenging than it sounds.
In this article, you'll learn the content structure of a one-pager and what to include so that you can write one easily and get good results.
What is a one-pager?
A one-pager is a marketing document, a single page of content, usually no larger than a sheet of A4 paper, designed to provide a comprehensive overview of a project or idea.
It aims to communicate the core information about a project and how the public can get in touch with the program team.
It can combine visual elements with the text to engage readers visually and keep them interested in the content. A well-structured one-pager guides readers' eyes through the text and helps them retain the information on the page.
Why do I need a one-pager?
There are a few different contexts in which you can write a one-pager. As I mentioned above, the main one is to disseminate the essential information of a project, but a one-pager is also a great way to summarize long research reports.
Here are some more detailed reasons why you should use one:
Get investors interested in your research - Investors watch dozens of presentations every day. A one-Pager helps remind them of the essential points of your presentation, acting as your elevator pitch on paper.
Identify gaps in the project - Filling in the one-page summary will help highlight what's missing from your project and what needs further consideration or revision.
Facilitate decision-making among the team - When your research team develops the investigation and designers create resources for the project, they can turn to the one-pager to confirm that their work is supported by the project's core values and goals.
This is why one-pagers are such an effective tool in many different scenarios. They get to the point quickly, arouse initial interest, and establish a conversation.
How to structure a one-pager
The exact content of a one-pager will depend on why it is needed and who is creating it. However, there is a basic working structure that you can follow when putting one together.
1 - Problem - What problem is the research focused on? Why should the reader care about this project?
2 - Hypothesis - What is the project hypothesis, and how will the team work on it? This should be a very short explanation of the initial assumptions and methodology for the project.
3 - Project Team - Who is working on the project? People invest on people, not on ideas. The potential for a successful project (or business) relies much more on the people behind it than the actual idea.
4 - Institutional Information - A short blurb about the institution and how to get involved.
Tips for writing a one-pager
Write in the active voice
The active voice keeps the text shorter, making it easier to skim, and a good one-pager is skimmable. It also sets the tone for action, which is what you want the reader to do: keep engaging with the content and wish to know more about your project or institution.
Pay attention to the hierarchy
Contrast is the name of the game. Use color, size, and white space, organizing the content so that it catches the reader's eye. Large fonts will create the color contrast to draw the reader where you want them to go. That's why they need to be short.
Keep it simple
Don't use very technical language. Remember that the one-pager is being produced for an external audience. You want to hook the reader, pique their interest, and get them to find out more. Stick to the main points. Leave the more detailed talk for later!
Get to the point
Remember that this is an elevator pitch on paper. You need to communicate the main points in 20 seconds. Otherwise, you'll lose. Use short headings followed by short paragraphs and direct sentences to explain the concepts, and that's it.
Use links
We often can't explain our projects in a single page, and I'm asking you to explain it in half a page (I can feel your pain). But we can solve this by adding links. You can add several links in your one-pager. That way, if the reader is interested and wants more, they can get it. The one-pager fulfills its mission if the reader clicks on a link. To help, include a call to action at the bottom of your one-pager. Use something like:
Wanna know more?
Visit our website to find out more
You can even get fancy and add tracking links to your one-pager to measure its effectiveness.
One-pager examples
To make it easier for you, we've created a design guide for a one-pager in one-pager format. View one-pager. 
Thanks for reading ccm.design Insights! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work.
Subscribe
Share
Discussion about this post
CommentsRestacks
TopLatestDiscussions
No posts
Ready for more?
Subscribe
© 2026 Claudio Mendonca · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice
 Start your SubstackGet the app
Substack is the home for great culture
        This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please turn on JavaScript or unblock scripts